---
KIP: "0011"
Title: poly-fungible-v1
Author: Stuart Popejoy stuart@kadena.io
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Chainweb
Created: 2021-05-21
---

## Abstract

Define and implement a Pact interface to provide a multi-token, "poly-fungible" standard, drawing inspiration
from ERC-1155 and related token standards. A poly-fungible allows a single module to represent fungible,
non-fungible, or "semi-fungible" assets, by being able to differentiate assets by an identifier,
within which fungibility is distinctly specified.


## Motivation

Immediate inspiration comes from the ERC-1155 "multi-token" standard, which reflects the attractive feature
that a single module can represent
unlimited tokens. As attractive as that is for developers, future Pact versions will support _implicit
arguments_ to allow a single module to present a `fungible-v2` single-token interface for multiple
assets, so "multi-token" is not a motivator in itself.

Instead, it is the plasticity of fungibility that adds the most value, for "NFT" use-cases that want
to issue some kind of fractional ownership or series. Here is where poly-fungible shines, by following
the Pact practice of denominating in decimal values with a precision indicator. Where ERC-1155 works only
in integer quanta, a poly-fungible can achieve this with a 0-value `precision`, but can also offer
truly "fractional" ownership with higher precisions.

## Rationale

### DISCUSSION: specify a receiver interface/"safe transfers".

"Safe transfer" is a mix of requirements so let's look at each:

1. "Safety" is not really at issue like in EVM/Ethereum. EVM has the wildly unsafe property
that any code address can receive funds under ERC-1155 and related standards, without any way to
know if that address is prepared to handle custody. Pact simply doesn't have this issue: to recreate
it you would have an account with a module guard for a module that doesn't handle custody, which
is hard to do by accident.

2. As a callback regime, safe transfers do allow for a "don't transfer to me" interface, but is only
applicable again where an account is automatically associated with code like in Ethereum. Pact has
too flexible of a custody model to afford any such automatic association, so implementing an on-demand
transfer restriction is a different problem altogether.

3. As a callback regime for dynamic registration of a previously unknown token, this isn't really necessary
in Pact as a module can simply be upgraded to manage custody of a module-guard-controlled account in
some token.

4. As a callback regime for transfer-by-transfer tracking, this is not possible in the current Pact model.

In general the Pact model is too flexible to lock it down to a particular notification/callback scheme.
However, a smart-contract-specific standard could be introduced for modules to register themselves with
a token as managing some account so that features 2-4 could be possible. However this is a larger
issue and since safety is not at stake, we conclude that this can be considered as a future API
and leave it out of this KIP.

### DISCUSSION: include ERC-1155 URI.

This might be important for interop with ERC-1155, especially if there are in-practice usages for
things like image URIs. Conclusion is to include for interop.

In ERC-1155 URI support is optional, so in Pact we will allow a `""` response to stand in for "not supported".

### DISCUSSION: enumerability / total supply

Total supply is excluded in ERC-1155 with the note that tracking transfers to and from `0x0` (null) address
(ie, burns and mints) can be used to determine supply.

In ERC-721 this is part of the `ERC721Enumerable` optional interface. ERC-1155 removes enumeration by
locking down on event emission invariants to "guarantee" that events will exhaustively account for supply,
because "enumerability" has the notion of an "index" that obviously makes no sense for a fungible
(or for an NFT either, really). In Pact even less so since it uses `string` for ID, so there is no
meaningful way to index them.

As a compromise, we include `total-supply` with the implementation detail that
a return value of `0.0` means total supply is not supported. We do not include any notion of
"enumeration" due to the inherent scalability issues.

## Backwards Compatibility

### Kadenaswap tokens.pact

Given the similarity to Kadenaswap's `tokens.pact` module there is some effort to not change argument
names etc. Thus `token` argument name instead of `id` for instance. However there are later changes in this document
that move away from `tokens.pact` so this is no longer an issue, and the standard will use `id` for consistency
with ERC-721 and ERC-1155.

### Fungible compatibility with implicits

`tokens.pact` is planned to offer `fungible-v2` compatibility using an upcoming Pact feature, _implicits_,
which allow a module reference to be parameterized with a named argument. With `tokens` if this argument
is `token:string`, then `tokens` becomes `fungible-v2` compatible. This is potentially an attractive feature
that could also work with KIP-0008 if desired with `balance:1.0`.

EDIT: this will also work with `id` argument.



## Specification

- Interface: [poly-fungible-v1.pact](poly-fungible-v1.pact)
- Reference implementation: [poly-fungible-reference.pact](poly-fungible-reference.pact)
- Test: [poly-fungible-test.repl](poly-fungible-test.repl)

## References
* EIP-1155: <https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155>
