---
KIP: "0014"
Title: Updated KIP-0012 Account Protocols
Author: Stuart Popejoy stuart@kadena.io, Doug Beardsley doug@kadena.io
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Chainweb
Created: 2021-12-22
---

## Abstract

Augment KIP-0012 account protocols with two new protocols, Guard Accounts and Rotatable Accounts.
Modify KIP-0012 Single-Key Accounts to forbid rotation.

## Motivation

KIP-0012 introduced Account Protocols and the Single-Account protocol,
as implemented in the KDA `coin` contract and elsewhere.
KIP-0012 reserves all account names starting with `C:` where `C` is a single alpha protocol identifier.

The KIP-0012 Single-Account protocol specifies `k:KEY` where KEY is a hex lowercase ED25519 public key.
This functions to _reserve the account name_ on any chain which avoids problems like
"squatting" where an account for a given name on one chain is grabbed by a malicious actor on
another chain. `k:` has effectively neutralized this threat vector.

However, `k:` is deficient in the following ways:

### Rotation considered harmful for "k:" accounts

Under `fungible-v2` and other standards, `rotate` is specified where an account guard can be
changed. This presents a challenge to many systems that are accustomed to single-key standards
on other blockchains such as Bitcoin and Ethereum where an "address" is irrevocably tied
to a single key. As such this presents problems for "total chain analysis" of a given token
using standard methods like tracking `fungible-v2.TRANSFER` events, which only provide account
names and not guards.

While rotation has proven useful with `k:` accounts, this is largely because `k:` makes _account
reservation_ possible, but by allowing rotate, this robs the protocol from a significant benefit
which is simplified and robust chain accounting.

### Rotatable Accounts

The solution proposed here is to (1) forbid rotation in `k:` accounts and (2) provide a "Rotatable
Account" protocol explicitly for rotation. This allows token protocols that wish to forbid rotation to
simply not support the Rotatable protocol.

Rotatable Accounts specify `r:GUARD_HASH` where GUARD_HASH is the BLAKE2b256 hash of the canonical JSON encoding of
the pact guard. At creation time the account is validated to have the hash of the provided guard.
Rotatable Accounts unsurprisingly put no restrictions on rotation.

### Guard Accounts: non-rotatable reservation for any guard type

Reservation is obviously an essential feature, and currently `k:` accounts are used for this
and then rotated to other guards. We observer that autonomous use cases like module guards lack
_any_ method for reservation currently as they cannot produce a key-based witness.

We propose "Guard Accounts" to add non-rotatable support for other guard types. Guard Accounts
specify `g:GUARD_HASH` where GUARD_HASH is the BLAKE2b256 hash of the canonical JSON encoding of
the pact guard. At creation time the account is validated to have the hash of the provided guard.
Guard accounts are NOT rotatable.

## Rationale

Expanding reservation capability to all custody types is an obvious win, so Guard Accounts needs
no further justification there.

Restricting rotation is strongly opinionated, obviously. However we argue that non-rotatable `k:`
and `g:` accounts follows a "principle of least surprise", given that single-key, non-rotatable custody
is overwhelmingly the norm, leading to potentially dangerous confusion for users.

The other big win of non-rotation is the dramatic simplification of total chain accounting and custody
analysis. Indeed certain tokens that have higher tracking requirements for AML concerns etc can
simply not support vanity and Rotatable accounts altogether, allowing them to confidently use the
`fungible-v2.TRANSFER` event stream to populate any downstream datastores.

Rotation uses the guard hash in order to support autonomous use cases (since single-key can obviously
be supported in Guard and Rotatable accounts, as it is "just another guard").


## Backwards Compatibility

Since KIP-0012 already reserved all `C:` account names, there are no conflicts with the new protocols.
Again since this only impacts account creation, there are no backcompat issues for existing accounts.

Forbidding rotation from `k:` accounts means that users employing `k:` accounts for this use case should
seek to migrate to other accounts such as "vanity" (non-protocol) and Rotatable accounts.

## Specification

Guard accounts are identified by `g:GUARD_HASH` where GUARD_HASH is the BLAKE2b256 hash of
the canonical JSON encoding of
the account guard. Rotation is forbidden.

Rotatable accounts are identified by `r:GUARD_HASH` where GUARD_HASH is the BLAKE2b256 hash of
the canonical JSON encoding of
the account guard at creation time. Rotation is permitted.

Rotation will be forbidden for `k:` accounts, except in the case where the account is being rotated
back to the original key for those accounts that had been previously rotated.

Implementation in Pact is TBD for this KIP.
